hi I'm clay Olsen with the wicked edge
what I've gotten the sharpener here is a
beautiful Strider SMG spearpoint and
this is one of the rare ones that was
made with CPM s110v steel which is a
it's a wonderful steel and there's not
too many of these knives made and it's
got excellent wear resistance very very
evenly distributed carbide so it takes a
super refined edge and it's been
hardened to sixty Rockwell so it's
really gonna hold that edge and be a
great cutter and it was sent in by a
customer named Jim McCormack who had
picked it up secondhand and was having a
couple issues with it the first issue
was that it had been sharpened
asymmetrically and one of the bevels was
much bigger than the other and the
second problem was that he was unable to
get rid of all the scratches along the
bevel so he sent it to us to see if we
could correct it and I think we've done
a pretty good job of getting all the
scratches out and I've managed to
correct the bevel so that it's really
got great symmetry now and the grind is
correct
the procedure I use to correct the
bevels and get the grind down the center
of the blade again was to start with our
50 grit super or ultra coarse Diamond
stones and just work on the side that
was small so when I got the knife that
first one bevel is gigantic and one
bevel is very small
I took the ultra core stones and just
worked on the small side and tell that
until the edge itself of the knife came
right back to the center and then now
both bellows were were nice and
symmetrical and I was able to start the
polishing process and from there instead
of going with diamonds I decided to play
around a little bit and use the show
Sarah water stones the main reason there
being that when I give the knife back to
Jim I want all the scratches to be gone
and the chips errors are an excellent
tool for removing scratches because
they're softer than the diamonds and
their particle distribution and the
consistency of the particle size in each
stone is so uniform that it really gives
you a great tool for delivering a bevel
that is super polished and that has my
new very even and consistent scratches
so I'm not even sure with the magnifying
glass if you can see the the scratches
that are on here they're they're still
here there's still a few of them but
they're very very very small this is a
little 20 power loop that I'm using
that's lighted so you can really take a
close look at your work and after using
the chess era stones and then our strops
all the way up to 0.125 micron CBN's
drops i think we've got this knife just
looking terrific you know the process
it's really easy to do it took me about
15 minutes from start to finish to get
to this level and the results I think
are just immensely satisfying so I'm
really confident that when I send this
Strider back to Jim he's gonna love it
and so that's the strider SMG spearpoint
sharpen on the wicked edge with our
ultra coarse and extra coarse Diamond
stones then switching to the Nano
achiara series of stones all the way up
through the 10k stone and then just
dropping with our various drops down to
0.125 microns CBN spray that's provide
to us by Kim Schwartz at precise
sharpening and fantastic knife is a
pleasure work on